# Data-Warehouse  

## Project Datasets

* Song data: 's3://udacity-dend/song_data'
* Log data: 's3://udacity-dend/log_data'
* This third file 's3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json' contains the meta information that is required by AWS to correctly load 's3://udacity-dend/log_data'

### Song Dataset

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are file paths to two files in this dataset.

```
song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
```

### Log Dataset

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are file paths to two files in this dataset.

```
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json
```

## Schema for Song Play Analysis

### Fact Table  
1. songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
    * songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent  
### Dimension Tables  

2. users - users in the app  
   * user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level  
3. songs - songs in music database    
   * song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration  
4. artists - artists in music database   
   * artist_id, name, location, latitude, longitude  
5. time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units  
   * start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday  
  
## Project Files

* `create_table.py` is where you'll create your fact and dimension tables and staging tables for the star schema in Redshift.  
* `etl.py` is where you'll load data from S3 into staging tables on Redshift and then process that data into your analytics tables on Redshift.  
* `sql_queries.py` is where you'll define you SQL statements, which will be imported into the two other files above.  

## How to Run

1. Create a Cluster in AWS
2. Add redshift database and IAM role info to `dwh.cfg`
3. run `python create_table.py`
4. run `python etl.py`
5. Delete redshift cluster when finished